[New Term] C++ Math Functions: `fmod()` (#1088)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/math-functions/terms/fmod/fmod.md

---
Title: 'fmod()'

> Description: 'Returns the floating-point remainder of the division of two values, rounded towards zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the floating-point remainder of the division of two values, rounded towards zero.'
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
fmod (numerator, denominator)
```

The quotient of the `numerator` divided by the `denominator` is rounded towards zero through truncation.
If the `denominator` is equal to zero, then either `0`, `NaN`, or a domain [error](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/errors) will be returned.
If a range error occurs, then the correct result is rounded and returned.

The return type for the `fmod()` function is `double`, `float`, `long double`, or a combination of these types.

> **Note:** The `<cmath>` header provides additional overloads for other combinations of arithmetic types (`double`, `float`, or `long double`). Overloaded functions cast the arguments to a `double` type before the calculation. If one of the arguments is a `long double` type, then both arguments are cast as `long double` types. 

## Example

The following example uses `fmod()` to return the floating-point remainder of `x`/`y` as a `double` type:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>
using namespace std;

> int main(){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
```

---
Title: 'fmod()'
Description: 'Computes the floating point remainder of numerator/denominator (rounded towards zero)'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`fmod()`** function in C++ computes the floating-point remainder of `numerator`/`denominator` (rounded towards zero). It is the extension of the modulo operation to floating-point numbers.

## Syntax

```pseudo
fmod (x, y)
```

x: The value of numerator,

> y: The value of denominator.

Author: Link underflow to an article of Codecademy or CPP Reference Sites?

> y: The value of denominator.

Author: Use a collapsible?
<details>
  <summary>Click Click!</summary>
https://gist.github.com/pierrejoubert73/902cc94d79424356a8d20be2b382e1ab
</details>

> y: The value of denominator.

Reviewer: Hmm I would rather we have a link to a Codecademy resource about underflow. I'm not able to easily find one right now so what I would suggest is the following edit:

> If a range error occurs, then the correct result is rounded and returned.

Perhaps in a future PR, we can edit this entry with further info about underflow **_or_** we could create a new C++ concept about overflow/underflow. But for now, let's omit that part. The point in this sentence will remain in tact.

> y: The value of denominator.

Author: Agreed.

## Prototype [C++11 Standard]

```cpp
double fmod(double x, double y);
float fmod(float x, float y);
long double fmod(long double x, long double y);
// Additional overloads
double fmod(Type1 x, Type2 y);
```

## Definition and Return Type

> Additional overloads are provided in this header (<cmath>) for other combinations of arithmetic types (Type1 and Type2): These overloads effectively cast its arguments to double before calculations, except if at least one of the arguments is of type long double (in which case both are casted to long double instead).

Reviewer 2: "~These~ The ~overloads~ overloaded functions ~effectively~ cast ~its~ the arguments to ~double~ a `double` type before ~calculations~ the calculation ~,~. ~except~ If ~at least~ one of the arguments is of type ~long double~ `long double` ~(in which case both are casted to long double instead)~, both arguments are cast to a `long double` type"

> If successful, returns the floating-point remainder of the division x/y as defined above.

Reviewer 2: Consider this statement instead:

"If the computation is successful, a floating-point remainder of the division  of `x` by `y` is returned as defined above."

> If the computation is successful, a floating-point remainder of the division of `x` and `y` is returned as defined above.

Reviewer 2: `x` by `y`.

> If a domain error occurs (If the denominator y is zero), an implementation-defined value is returned (NaN where supported).

Reviewer 2: "~If the denominator y is zero~ the denominator is zero"

~NaN~ `NaN`

> ## Definition and Return Type
> 
> Additional overloads are provided in this header `<cmath>` for other combinations of arithmetic types (Type1 and Type2): The overloaded functions cast the arguments to a `double` before the calculation. If one of the arguments is of type `long double`, both arguments are cast to a `long double` type.
> 
> If the computation is successful, a floating-point remainder of the division of `x` and `y` is returned as defined above.
> If a domain error occurs (the denominator is zero), an implementation-defined value is returned (`NaN` where supported).
> If a range error occurs due to underflow, the correct result (after rounding) is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The `<cmath>` header provides additional overloads for other combinations of arithmetic types (`double`, `float`, or `long double`). Overloaded functions cast the arguments to a `double` type before the calculation. If one of the arguments is a `long double` type, then both arguments are cast as `long double` types. 
```

## Example

> The following example uses `fmod()` to return floating-point remainder of the division `x/y` in double:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses `fmod()` to return the floating-point remainder of `x`/`y` as a `double` type:
```

Author: Implemented.
Title box is not displayed as expected. Didn't make any significant changes to it though. Can you please look into the issue?
Thanks.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>
using namespace std;

> int main()
> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
```

Most of our existing C++ entries seem to have the opening curly brace on the same line as the opening signature.

>     double x = 7.5, y = 2.1;
>     double result = fmod(x, y);
>     cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
>     
>     x = -17.50, y = 2.0;
>     result = fmod(x, y);
>     cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
>     
>     return 0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  double x = 7.5, y = 2.1;
  double result = fmod(x, y);
  cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
    
  x = -17.50, y = 2.0;
  result = fmod(x, y);
  cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
    
  return 0;
```

}
```

Output:
```shell
Remainder of 7.5/2.1 = 1.2
Remainder of -17.5/2 = -1.5
```

## Codebyte Example

> The following example is runnable and returns the x/y value

Reviewer: I would go with something like this:

```suggestion
The following example is runnable and returns the floating-point remainder:
```

```codebyte/cpp

> #include <iostream>
> #include <cmath>
> 
> using namespace std;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>
using namespace std;
```

int main()
{
    double x = 7.5, y = 2.1;

>     double result = fmod(x, y);

Reviewer: Why don't we either `x` or `y` a different data type to demonstrate the casting nature of `<cmath>` and `fmod()`?

Author: Sure, What about changing it to float?
Should i do it in Example, Codebyte Example or both?

Author: Committing changes with this issue yet to resolve. Will change as soon as i hear from you.

Reviewer: > Sure, What about changing it to float?
> Should i do it in Example, Codebyte Example or both?

Yeah, a float is fine and you can do this either in the Example, the Codebyte Example, or both. 😄

Author: Modified Codebyte Example so that now there is one of each type for learners. 😀

> int main()
> {
>     double x = 7.5, y = 2.1;
>     double result = fmod(x, y);
>     cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
>     
>     x = -17.50, y = 2.0;
>     result = fmod(x, y);
>     cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
>     
>     return 0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  double x = 7.5, y = 2.1;
  double result = fmod(x, y);
  cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
    
  x = -17.50, y = 2.0;
  result = fmod(x, y);
  cout << "Remainder of " << x << "/" << y << " = " << result << endl;
    
  return 0;
```
